Which factor will most likely cause a person to develop a fever? a bacterial population in the bloodstream
Lichens are symbiotic organisms made of green algae and fungi. What do the green algae supply to the fungi in this symbiotic relationship? food
When a switch is used in an electrical circuit, the switch can stop and start the flow of current.
Which of the following is an example of an assistive device? contact lens
Rocks are classified as igneous, metamorphic, or sedimentary according to how they formed
A chewable calcium carbonate tablet is a common treatment for stomach discomfort. Calcium carbonate is most likely used as this type of medicine because calcium carbonate neutralizes digestive acid.
Which two body systems are directly involved in movement? muscular and skeletal
Which change in the state of water particles causes the particles to become arranged in a fixed position? freezing
Earth's core is primarily composed of which of the following materials? iron
Which of the following events during meiosis contributes most to the variation within a species? segregation of alleles
Which of the following was probably most important in the formation of dark, fertile soil that is good for farming? plant decomposition
When igneous rock is changed into metamorphic rock, which form of energy is this process? heat
In humans, the digestion process begins in the mouth, with chewing and saliva.
Which of these items contains only a solution? a bottle of juice
Many natural rock formations change color over time. In Utah, for example, iron oxidized and formed red, orange, and yellow rock. Which of the following is the cause of this change? chemical weathering
A population of small, plant-eating beetles lives in a forest. About half of the beetles are light brown and the others are dark green. If years of drought cause the area to become dry with few trees, what would the beetle population most likely look like after several generations? It would be mostly light brown beetles.
A scientist wanting to document a change in a river's flow pattern should observe a river over a period of years.
Automobile engines built today are designed to be gas efficient. Gas-efficient engines most likely affect a city by reducing air pollution.
A student in an empty classroom shouts, "Hello!" Which best explains what the student hears after the shout? a reflection of sound
Which type of energy in gasoline is transformed into mechanical energy in a motorcycle engine? chemical
A student standing near a campfire feels warmer as the fire grows. Which process most likely transfers heat from the campfire to the student? radiation
In snapdragon plants, red flowers are dominant to white flowers. When red-flowered plants are crossed with white-flowered plants, pink flowers are produced. If a researcher wants to produce plants with only white flowers, what color should the parent plants be? both white
Scientists use the term "light year" to describe the distance light travels in one year.
Plate movement can form different features on Earth. The movement of tectonic plates can be both a constructive and a destructive force. At which type of plate boundary is new crust formed? divergent
Which group of organisms can show significant trait changes in the shortest period of time? bacteria
Peach trees have sweet-smelling blossoms and produce rich fruit. What is the main purpose of the flowers of a peach tree? to attract bees for pollination
A group of students are researching changes in climate in their region. Which of these would best provide evidence of changes in temperature and rainfall over a period of years? tree rings
Which of these would help to prevent infections from occurring in small cuts and scrapes? wash the area with warm, soapy water
Which best describes why winds at the beach change direction between day and night? because the temperatures over land and over water change
Soil erosion can be best prevented by building terraces into the sides of a slope.
Which of the following properties provides the BEST way to identify a mineral? hardness
Which sequence represents the order of development for many plants? seed develops inside fruit -> seed is dispersed -> seed germinates -> plant grows
When ice cream is left out of a freezer, the ice cream changes from a ___. solid to a liquid
Which equipment will best separate a mixture of iron filings and black pepper? magnet
Which characteristic is shared by all cells? They need energy.
On a small, isolated island, a hurricane destroyed all the trees that produced a large, hard-shelled nut. Which bird population would most likely decrease? birds with thick, strong beaks
A cow and a frog have similar bone structures in their forelimbs. Both have phalanges, radius, ulna, and humerus bones. However, the cow and frog are animals with very different life cycles from each other. Which most likely describes why the body structures of these animals are so similar? Both descended from a common ancestor.
A cell that is unable to import substances required to process chemical energy is most likely a result of a malfunctioning cell membrane.
Which best describes all unicellular organisms? Every cell performs all life functions.
When a transverse wave passes from right to left through a medium, what happens to the particles of the medium? Particles move back and forth perpendicular to the wave.
Which characteristic below most likely accounts for our limited knowledge of galaxies? their great distance from Earth
Decomposers increase the fertility of the soil and prevent dead organisms from building up in the environment. In which way do decomposers make the soil more fertile? by adding nitrogen
When oxygen combines with hydrogen, which substance is formed? water
When plants undergo photosynthesis, a reaction produces sugar, oxygen, and water. During respiration, stored energy from the products of photosynthesis is converted to usable energy. In what form is the energy stored prior to use in respiration? chemical energy
Which of the following is a typical example of a unicellular organism? bacteria
Over geologic time, global mean sea level has varied significantly. Which change is most likely responsible for an increase in global mean sea level? melting of polar ice caps
Which body system is most responsible for the removal of waste? excretory system
In which environment is white fur color an advantage for survival? arctic tundra
Which of these will best separate iron filings from sand? a magnet
Which of these is the chemical symbol for magnesium? Mg
Which of the following is most likely to lead to error in an experiment? bias
Which best describes transportation technology? a system that is used to move people and products
In a gasoline-powered car, chemical energy from gasoline is transformed to make the car move. The motion of the car is what form of energy? mechanical energy
Which characteristic is affected by interactions with the environment? weight
Which is the greatest impact humans have had on the carbon cycle? burning fossil fuels
The floating arrow on a compass always points towards the north.
Which color shirt will reflect the most light on a hot, sunny day? white
A 10 g sample of aluminum and a 10 g sample of iron were each heated by 100 joules of energy. The temperature of the aluminum sample rose 11°C, while the temperature of the iron sample increased 23°C. Which statement best accounts for these results? The specific heat of iron is less than that of aluminum.
If its food supply in a field decreases, the mouse population in that field will probably decrease.
Overuse of soil for farming causes local disruptions of several Earth subsystems. Which of these is a part of the biogeochemical cycle that experiences the most severe local disruption? cycling phosphorus into the soil
Which of the following is an example of a physical change but not a chemical change? A water pipe freezes and cracks on a cold night.
While conducting an investigation on refraction, a teacher uses a red laser pointer to show how a beam of light is affected as it passes through several glass objects. The teacher should make sure that the beam of light does not travel toward the students.
One student wrote a report about an investigation in which fertilizer was added to tomato plants. Which information from that student's report would most help a second student repeat the investigation? the amount of fertilizer added
A student wants to look under a heavy rock. Which simple machine would be BEST to use to lift the rock? Lever
Rust is a compound with the formula Fe_{2}O_{3}. Which elements combine to form rust? iron and oxygen
The chemical equation below shows a reaction of copper (Cu) with silver nitrate (AgNO_{3}) yielding silver (Ag) and copper(II) nitrate (Cu(NO_{3})_{2}) Cu + 2AgNO_{3} -> 2Ag + Cu(NO_{3})_{2} Silver and copper(II) nitrate are called the products.
What role does the centromere play in cellular reproduction? It is the area of attachment for chromatids.
If 1 kg of the compound toluene melts at -95°C, then 500 g of toluene will melt at -95°C.
A calculation based on the chemical energy of gasoline shows that a car should be able to go 100 miles on a gallon of fuel. When the car was driven on a test track, the car only went 25 miles on a gallon of fuel. What accounts for most of the difference? the waste heat from the combustion of fuel in the engine
A student wants to find the relationship between the diameter of several plastic disks and the circumference of each disk. Which of these types of graphs should be constructed to determine this relationship? line graph
When light is bounced off a mirror, the light is reflected.
Which of the following sentences best explains what happens when puddles evaporate? The water changes from one form to another.
Plants on hills keep dirt in place during a rain storm. Plant roots grow into the dirt and keep the dirt from moving. Why do roots grow into the dirt? to absorb nutrients
In animal skin tissue, cell division is responsible for growth and repair
Which process drives most of the ATP synthesis in a chloroplast? flow of protons across an electrochemical gradient
Which of the following is most consistent with the modern theory of evolution? Parents pass their physical traits to their offspring; those offspring with traits that help them survive in the environment are able to reproduce.
Felicia investigated whether water color affected how fast the water heated in sunlight. She poured tap water into five beakers and placed food coloring in four out of the five beakers. Felicia then used a thermometer to measure the temperature of the water in each of the beakers. Which of these was used as control in her investigation? testing the beaker of uncolored tap water
One process in the formation of sedimentary rocks is when rocks are broken up and deposited in layers.
Western coral snakes have a striped color pattern and are poisonous. Arizona mountain king snakes look like western coral snakes but are not poisonous. The color pattern of the Arizona mountain king snake is an example of mimicry.
Which plant trait is inherited? the shape of its leaves
A student put 200 milliliters (mL) of water into a pot, sets the pot on a burner, and heats the water to boil. When the pot is taken off the burner, it contains only 180 milliliters (mL) of water. What happened to the rest of the water? It turned into water vapor.
Howie put his plants under a plant light. What was he helping his plants do by providing light? make food
Which lists the diameter of the planets in order from smallest to largest? Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth
The aloe plant can absorb a lot of water during a rain shower. The extra water is stored in its leaves. The ability to store water in its leaves is most likely an adaptation to which type of environment? one with dry conditions
When stratospheric ozone levels are reduced, the amount of ultraviolet radiation hitting Earth increases. Ozone depletion is most often caused when fluorocarbons are released into the atmosphere.
Owen tested a physical property of a mineral. He rubbed a mineral sample on a piece of white tile. The mineral left a red mark on the tile. Which of the following physical properties of the mineral was Owen most likely testing? streak
Which of these animals has a young form that looks the most like the adult form? human
Two tectonic plates pushing toward each other cause intense heat and pressure in Earth's crust. Into which will crust material be changed by heat and pressure? metamorphic rock
A student states that plants grow taller when grown in natural light than they do in artificial light. Which method is the best way to determine if the statement is fact or opinion? conduct a controlled experiment
Which object is powered by an electrical circuit? a flashlight
Which concept supports the endosymbiotic origin of complex, eukaryotic double-membrane structures? Mitochondria and chloroplasts arise from preexisting mitochondria and chloroplasts.
Which of these human activities most relies on high-quality soil? Growing crops
What is an example of a shelter in an ecosystem? a raccoon in a hollow log
Some areas of the world are experiencing more desert-like conditions. This change most favors survival of species with the ability to do which of the following? become dormant for long periods
Roger poured water over a pile of sand. Some of the sand washed away. This process is similar to which of the following? The erosion of the walls of a canyon
When an earthquake wave passes from the crust to the mantle, the wave changes speed.
A student wraps a wire around an iron nail. The student then connects the wire to a battery. The nail attracts another nail and they stick together. What force holds the two nails together? magnetic force
Natural processes cause rapid and slow changes to Earth's surface. Which event causes changes to Earth's surface most rapidly? an earthquake shaking the ground
Since 1961, Nevada has led the United States in production of which resource? gold
A class is testing the effect of exercise on heart rate. The heart rate of two students before exercise is compared to their heart rate after running around a track. Which procedure will most likely help the class correctly compare the results of the two students? have the students run for the same amount of time
Which interaction within an ecosystem is characterized by gradual change from one community of organisms to another? succession
The continuous changes of a seed to an adult plant that produces seeds is known as a life cycle.
When someone plays the flute, sound is produced because the air in the flute is vibrating.
Scientists compared Pluto with other objects in the solar system and found that Pluto is smaller than Earth's moon. This finding caused scientists to question whether Pluto is a planet because the other planets are much larger than Pluto
When an iron nail wrapped in a copper wire is attached to a circuit, it forms an electromagnet.
Which gas accounts for the largest percentage of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere? water vapor
Which human body system attacks viruses and bacteria once they have invaded the body? immune
The atoms that make up oxygen gas share two covalent bonds.
A student wants to cut a piece of string for a class activity. The length of the string is measured BEST in which units? Centimeters
If the atomic mass number of an atom is 35, which statement is most accurate? The number of protons does not equal the number of neutrons.
Biotic components need to be recycled through an ecosystem. Which type of organisms are best able to recycle nutrients back into the ecosystem? decomposers
Roger visited his grandfather who lives on a farm. While he was there, he helped his grandfather move hay out of the barn. As Roger worked in the barn he began sneezing. Which system of the body most likely caused Roger to sneeze? immune
Why should plants be included in investigations about the water cycle? Plants are part of the water cycle through the process of transpiration.
Which statement best identifies a basic need of all animals? They need to eat.
Which of the following describes an instinctive behavior? a behavior that an animal is born knowing how to do
Which of these provide the best evidence that life could develop on Mars? its ice and organic molecules
The primary reason that plants are important for an ecosystem is because they provide energy for consumers.
Energy from the Sun reaches Earth by radiation.
Scientists study the current conditions of many solar system objects to gain insight into conditions early in the history of Earth. Which phenomenon most closely models current theories of early Earth? hundreds of active volcanoes on Io
Jonathan places a pot of water on a stove. As the water boils, how does the state of the water change? from liquid to gas
Animal cells obtain energy by absorbing nutrients.
Which illness is associated with a weakened immune system in the body? cancer
In the human kidney, urea from the blood is filtered through the glomerular membrane into a nephron. The movement of urea across this membrane occurs without an input of energy. Which factor is the most likely reason urea absorption does not require energy? a concentration gradient
The greatest amount of diversity can be found among which type of organism? bacteria
Which energy type is common enough in Nevada to make a significant contribution to the renewable energy needs of the state? geothermal
Until recently the Grand Canyon was thought to be about 5-6 million years old. Recently a scientist gathered data and wrote a paper for a scientific journal that indicated the canyon is about 17 million years old. Before this new information about the canyon is accepted, which of these needs to occur? Many scientists need to evaluate the data.
Which human trait is most likely inherited from a parent? height
Foam weather stripping is often placed in the frames of doors and windows in a home. What is the purpose of this weather stripping? The weather stripping reduces heat loss due to convection.
The items listed below were found in a science classroom. * a heart made of plastic with many of its parts labeled * clay formed to look like Earth and other planets * a giant plastic plant cell with removable cell parts These items are all examples of models
For a technology project, Kyle came up with an idea to build a model bridge. He wants his bridge to span 50 cm and to support a 1 kg object. According to the engineering design process, which of the following should be Kyle's next step? research the different designs of bridges
Light travels fastest through which of the following? a vacuum
Different systems of the human body perform different functions. Which system takes oxygen from the air to be moved by the circulatory system? the respiratory system
A solar cell turns sunlight into another form of energy. A solar cell is most like what natural structure? a plant's leaves
The Sun appears to move across the sky each day, rising in the east and setting in the west. What causes this apparent motion? the rotation of Earth on its axis
What causes a blue block to appear blue in the sunlight? Only blue light is reflected by the block.
A student determined the density of different bars of soap. Which should the student most likely do to check the accuracy of the results? repeat the experiment
Which method below would be the best way to determine if an egg, plastic foam, a piece of wood, or a candle would float on water? observing each object in water
Liam lives in the Northern Hemisphere of Earth and plays in the snow in December. His friend lives in the Southern Hemisphere of Earth and plays at the beach in December. What is the best explanation for why this is possible? tilt of Earth on its axis
A scientist needs to take a picture of the well-ordered arrangements of the atoms and molecules within a substance. Which of the following instruments would be best for the scientist to use? an electron microscope.
Gold atoms can be identified based on the number of which subatomic particles? protons
Which is needed for both boiling and melting to occur? heat
Which of the following is an example of genetic engineering? Inserting a gene into plants that makes them resistant to insects.
Which of the following is an example of a container that is filled with a pure substance rather than with a mixture? a balloon filled with helium
Which best describes the role of the esophagus in digestion? It carries food from the mouth to the stomach.
Which change is most likely caused by a thunderstorm? a stream flooding
Which is an example of an organism that has been selectively bred for a particular genetic trait? chickens that lay large eggs
Which of these can be described as a system of stars, gases, dust, and other matter that orbits a common center of gravity? a galaxy
The Florida Bog Frog (Lithobates okaloosae) inhabits shallow stream overflows in three counties in Florida. With such a small geographic habitat, any change in the frog's environment could cause drastic changes in the population. Which would most likely affect the frog population if acid rain changed the pH of the water? Tadpoles would be unable to survive.
Which function do kidneys provide to maintain homeostasis? the removal of nitrogenous wastes from the blood
While running, leg muscles work to move leg bones, and the skin helps to regulate body temperature.
Rolanda is growing tomato plants in her garden. She has created a compost pile and has been adding compost around her tomato plants to help fertilize them. Compost is solid waste in which organic material is broken down by microorganisms in the presence of oxygen to where it can be safely stored, handled, and applied to the environment. On what does Rolanda primarily rely in order for composting to work? decomposers
Some students were on a tour exploring the inside of a cave. While the students were in the cave, they realized they heard an echo every time that they spoke. Which most likely caused the echo to occur? the reflection of the sound waves
A scientist uses angstrom units to measure the distance between two points. The scientist is most likely measuring the distance between two atoms.
Based on the evidence available at the time, early models of the solar system stated that all objects in space orbited Earth. In the 16th century, an astronomer reevaluated the evidence and proposed a model of the solar system that is still in use. What part of this model corrected the mistake in previous solar system models? The Sun is at the center of this model.
The hormone insulin is secreted by the pancreas. Which activity is most likely to trigger an increase in the levels of insulin circulating in the blood? eating
In gym class a student kicks a soccer ball high into the air. As the ball goes upward, which type of energy is increasing? potential energy
Which best describes the orbit of the Moon around Earth? elliptical with a period of about one month
In any physical or chemical process, what two quantities are always conserved? matter and total energy
The nucleus of MOST atoms consists of protons and neutrons
The complete removal of decomposers from an ecosystem will have the greatest effect on which of the following? the recycling of nutrients
In an accurate diagram of the solar system, which object would be shown closest to Earth? the Moon
Typically, sedimentary rocks are formed from materials that settle.
Which renewable resource is used with photovoltaic cells to produce electricity? solar energy
Which will most likely happen to a solid substance that is heated? It will melt.
A scientist observes an unusual activity while studying bacterial cells. Using scientific inquiry to investigate the activity will enable the scientist to evaluate different explanations of the behavior.
In order to survive, all organisms must have energy
Which observation of a plant supports the inference that photosynthesis can take place? a green color
To safely conduct an experiment using chemicals, what should students always do? Wear safety goggles.
Infections may be caused by microorganisms
Which are two parts of the carbon cycle? photosynthesis and respiration
The digestive system breaks food into simple substances that the body can use. What system carries these simple substances from the digestive system to other parts of the body? circulatory
A student conducts an experiment using a common but potentially harmful bacteria culture. After working with the bacteria, which is the most important safety practice to follow? wash hands and tabletops thoroughly
Which of these environmental changes goes on for months or years? drought
Erin placed her shamrock plant in a dark corner. Soon she saw that the leaves had tilted toward her window. What did the plant need most from the window? sunlight during the day
Which gravitational pull has the greatest influence on Earth's tides? the gravitational pull between Earth and the Moon
One key physical process in beach formation is wave action. Sand is deposited on beaches as waves break onto the shoreline and the energy from the wave scatters. Which type of energy is most used by wave action to modify the shape of the beaches? mechanical
A student is asked to bring something that feels rough to class. Which would be BEST for him to bring? Sandpaper
What tool would be used to examine a fingerprint? a hand lens
Which of the following is a mineral? diamond
During a rainstorm, leaves wash down a gully on a hillside. The water slows down at the foot of the hill and fans out, depositing the leaves. What geologic structure is formed in a similar way? a delta
The change in fur color of the Arctic hare from brown in the summer to white in the winter is an example of camouflage.
Which sense is used to tell if there is sugar in a glass of tea? Taste
The surface of Earth is covered by a relatively thin layer of water called the hydrosphere
All organisms contain DNA and RNA. What are the subunits of DNA and RNA? nucleotides
How does ice change the shape of rocks? It breaks the rocks by expanding in openings.
Which property of Earth's interior keeps the innermost part in a solid state? extremely high pressure
Diseases that can be transmitted between organisms are infectious.
The transfer of thermal energy from one object to another is known as heat.
Which part of the body carries out the function of copying DNA? cells
The atomic mass of an atom is the sum of protons and neutrons.
Different species of carnivorous animals that share the same habitat in an ecosystem may compete for food
Which scientist is best known for studying plants and animals? Charles Darwin
Green plants get the energy they need to make food from sunlight
The movement of soil by wind or water is called erosion
Arctic areas are covered with snow and ice for much of the year. Which color rabbits would be safest from foxes there? white
The ratio of an object's mass to its volume is its density.
As the hawk population increases in an ecosystem, the deer mouse population will most likely decrease as a result of increase in predators.
Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere trap heat near Earth's surface. Which of these is a greenhouse gas? water vapor
What happens during photosynthesis? Plants change light energy into food energy.
Which is an example of a chemical reaction? The burning of wood
A baby kit fox grows to become an adult with a mass of over 3.5 kg. What factor will have the greatest influence on this kit fox's survival? the conditions of the fox's habitat
Hydrochloric acid is added to a beaker containing a piece of zinc. As a result, zinc chloride is formed and hydrogen gas is released. This is an example of a chemical reaction
Which part of a plant produces the seeds? flower
Which of the following is found in all living organisms? cell
What is the role of decomposers in a food chain? They break down dead organic matter.
Copernicus changed the way people viewed the solar system by claiming Earth is in orbit about the Sun.
Which part of the electromagnetic spectrum can humans sense without using equipment or technology? visible light
The nervous system is composed of cells, tissues, and organs. Which is a cell of the nervous system? neuron
A shallow container of salt water is placed in sunlight for a day. Which is the most likely result? Only the water will evaporate and the salt will remain in the container.
Which of these will best separate a saltwater solution? allowing the water to evaporate
Mrs. Henderson's class has five small, covered boxes. One contains perfume; another contains dried onions. There is also a box of pine needles, a box of lemon pieces, and a box with a paper towel wet with vanilla flavoring. Which should they do to get the best information about what is in each box? Smell the boxes.
Which features are physical properties of an iron nail? conducts heat, magnetic, solid
Which item would a magnet attract? iron nail
Which human activity is most harmful to the natural environment? cutting down a rain forest
The process of digestion breaks down proteins into smaller molecules that are used to rebuild other proteins. During digestion, proteins undergo chemical changes.
Blood is composed of different cell types that transport nutrients and wastes throughout the body. Because of this, blood is classified as a tissue.
What should a student do when a glass beaker shatters during a laboratory experiment? Notify the teacher.
An astronomical unit (AU) refers to the distance between Earth and the Sun.
An organ pipe produces a musical note same number of nitrogen gas molecules. with a wavelength of 2.72 m. What is the frequency of this note if the speed of sound is 348 m/s? 128 Hz
Which of the following allows the planets to stay in orbit? the Sun's gravity
Which of these involves the formation of a new chemical substance? rusting of an iron chain
Water causes weathering when it erodes rock in its path.
Which of these statements about nonrenewable resources is true? They can take millions of years to form.
Which statement best identifies a living thing that depends on another living thing to survive? A moose eats a plant.
A student is playing with a small toy boat on a pond. The student throws a rock in the pond. This creates waves that move the boat toward the shore. The boat moves toward the shore because the waves transfer energy.
A geologist finds a layer of shale near the surface from a certain time period. Nearby, the geologist finds the same layer of shale, but it is deeper underground than the first layer. What might have caused the difference in the depth of the shale layer? a fault
The pull of gravity on Earth is caused by the mass of Earth.
In which type of rock are fossils generally found? sedimentary
Structural geologists study rock formations to determine the type of environment in which the rocks formed and the events that shaped the rocks. Paleontologists study fossils found in rock formations. Scientists in both these fields have a common interest in discovering the history and processes of Earth.
A simple machine that helps move a flag up a flagpole is a pulley
Which cellular structure allows nutrients to pass into cells? membrane
An example of a renewable resource is wood.
Minerals are formed by which process? magma cooling
Which of these best defines the term "pollutant"? any substance that is harmful to the environment
The periodic table of the elements is systematically organized according to the structure of the atoms of the elements.
Which human body system produces the hormones that regulate growth? endocrine
Repeated exposure to extremely loud sounds can reduce hearing ability by direct damage to which structures? the sensory neurons in the ears
What does a mirror do to light that causes objects to appear backwards? reflects
The formation of the mineral halite is most likely to occur by which process? the evaporation of seawater
A student wants to design an experiment regarding the behavior of crickets. Which is the best question to ask to begin the experiment? Do crickets chirp more during the day or at night?
Decomposers are organisms that eat and break down dead plant and animal material. Which organism is a decomposer? bacteria
An area received six inches of snow during the winter. Before the snow can continue through the water cycle as ground water or runoff, it must first ___. melt
New vaccines for diseases are being developed all the time. How do vaccines most likely help people? Vaccines help prevent illnesses.
The cell cycle describes the processes that take place as a cell forms new cells.
A company that makes fences started using a new material instead of wood. The new material will last longer than wood. What is the most likely benefit of the new material? The new material can save money on replacements.
Which best explains how the Appalachian Mountains formed? tectonic plates collided
Which is a source of sound? a vibration
Which natural material is best for making a table? wood that is sturdy
A class is studying textures and collects several samples. Which of these items would the students most likely use magnification to study? hair
Over several years, a scientist successfully isolates a species of flower for white color. This year, when the new generation of flowers blooms, one yellow flower is found in the population. Which is the best reason for the appearance of a new flower color within the species? genetic mutation
What type of precipitation occurs when raindrops freeze as they fall? sleet
In the atomic model that includes a nucleus, the positive charge is concentrated in the center of the model.
A student used two long wires to connect a lightbulb to a battery. The student noticed that as soon as the circuit was complete, a nearby compass started to point in a direction other than north. The compass pointed in a different direction because it was reacting to the magnetic field produced by the electric current.
The production of sweat is typically a response to an increase in the body's temperature.
Which of the following converts electrical energy into motion? electric fan
What happens at the boiling point of a substance? liquid becomes a gas
How do producers get energy? using the sun to make food
In an investigation, a student wants to see how a ball is affected by rolling it over a surface covered with sandpaper. In preparation for the trial, the student makes a list of the possible conditions that could affect the investigation. The student is most likely listing the variables.
If two organisms are classified in different orders but are in the same class, which of these statements is true? The organisms are in the same phylum.
Why do mountain climbers at high elevations use oxygen tanks to help them breathe? The atmosphere is less dense at higher elevations so there is less oxygen available.
The students were told that the net applied force from the engine was the same for each vehicle tested. Based on this information, which vehicle had the greatest acceleration (a = F/m)? vehicle 1
Which metric unit is used to describe an object's length? centimeter (cm)
Which is a process that occurs during photosynthesis? Plants take in carbon dioxide and release oxygen.
The work of which scientist serves as the basis for many procedures used in agriculture, such as selective breeding of plants? Mendel
A student is investigating which type of soil is best for growing tomato plants from seeds. The student plants four tomato seeds in each of three different containers of soil. Which step of the procedure would help the student get the most reliable results? Change only the soil type in each container.
In many caves, rock formations include stalactites and stalagmites. Where does the rock in these formations come from? dissolved minerals
A person named Leonardo da Vinci studied many things including animals, geology, clouds, and flight. His study of birds helped him design the first parachute. Everything he saw made him ask how and why. Which human quality most likely made this person want to study many different things? curiosity
What is the main reason we can see the Moon? The Moon reflects the light from the Sun.
Which of these events have the most influence on regional climate? ocean trade winds
If a scientist wants the medical community to revise old information and use new research findings in the treatment of a disease, it would be best to present the information at a physicians' conference.
David planted ten corn seeds in sandy soil and ten corn seeds in clay soil. He kept both groups of plants at room temperature, gave them the same amount of water, and placed them all in the same sunny room. Which of the following questions is David most able to answer with his experiment? Do corn plants grow better in sandy soil or in clay soil?
Which geologic feature most likely forms when an oceanic tectonic plate is slowly subducted beneath a continental tectonic plate? ocean trench
A glacier retreats leaving bare rocks. Lichens begin to live on the rocks. The lichens produce an acid that starts to break down the rocks. How will this process affect the environment? It will begin the process of building soil.
During protein synthesis, mRNA is translated into three-base sequences representing amino acids. What signals the ribosome to begin translating the mRNA into a new amino acid sequence? a codon
Phobos is one of two large objects that orbit the planet Mars. Because Phobos orbits Mars, Phobos should be classified as which type of body? moon
Water at 20°C in an uncovered pan is evaporating very slowly. What could be done to the water to make it evaporate more quickly? Heat it.
Which rapid changes are caused by heat from inside Earth? volcanoes
Which tool is most responsible for preventing future pandemics of smallpox? worldwide vaccination for smallpox
After which event will ecological succession most likely happen? a forest fire
Sir Isaac Newton determined that white light is made up of all the colors of the rainbow. What did he use to discover this phenomenon? a prism
Which characteristic is most common among animals living in a cold climate? layers of fat
Species are classified based on their characteristics. Which characteristic identifies two organisms as members of one species? The organisms can produce fertile offspring.
A student hypothesizes that the amount of water a plant receives will affect how long it grows before reaching maturity. To test this hypothesis, the student will need several identical plant seeds.
One example of matter is water
If a classroom experiment involves the use of several unidentified chemical solutions, which factor would be most important in maintaining safety during the experiment? The classroom would have good ventilation.
Vein deposits of gold and silver are often formed in areas that have experienced which geologic process? igneous intrusion
Cells that conduct messages are known as nerve cells
The boiling of water results in a physical change in matter from liquid to gas.
What do playing a guitar, banging a drum, and dropping a pebble in the water have in common? They all cause vibrations.
Which object below is gaining stored energy? A rubber band that is being stretched
At room temperature, what state of matter is copper? solid
All of the following events occur during prophase in mitosis except crossing over.
A seed of a plant sticks to the fur of an animal as it walks by. How has the animal most likely helped the plant? by spreading the seed
Which part of a plant is used to absorb sunlight during photosynthesis? leaf
You wish to closely observe a small insect. Which tool is the best to use? a magnifying glass
The interaction of the skeletal and muscular systems to produce locomotion is coordinated by which human body system? nervous
A student flips a coin four times. It lands "heads" up three times. The student concludes that the coin will land "heads" up three times out of four. What will make the conclusion more accurate? flipping the coin twenty more times
Which mineral has six-sided transparent crystals that will scratch glass? quartz
Which best describes a proton? positively charged and part of the nucleus
The difference between the atomic number of an element and the element's atomic mass is the number of neutrons.
Which step will most likely ensure that the results of an investigation are valid? comparing the results with those of other scientists
What is formed when a sodium atom and chlorine atom react chemically? a compound
Which of these is an example of an endothermic process? first-aid instant cold pack
The distance from Earth to the Sun is about 150,000,000 km. What abbreviation do scientists use to describe this distance? astronomical unit (AU)
In New York State, the longest period of daylight occurs during which month? June
Which trait does a puppy inherit from its parents? fur color and pattern
Which material is most easily recycled at school? notebook paper
Plants make sugars in the presence of sunlight in a process called photosynthesis. What form of carbon do the plants take in for this process? carbon dioxide
The sun is a star of average size and brightness. From Earth, the sun appears as a round, yellow object in the daytime sky. At night, we see other stars. They appear as tiny points of light. Why does the sun appear larger than stars that we see at night? The sun is closer to Earth than other stars, making the sun appear larger.
A drain cleaner consists of sodium hydroxide and aluminum. When the drain cleaner is added to water, bubbles of hydrogen are produced, and the solution becomes very hot. Which of these best describes what happens to form the bubbles when the cleaner is added to water? F chemical reaction
John has diabetes. Which of the following should he be careful about eating or drinking? fruit juice
Within a substance, atoms that collide frequently and move independently of one another are most likely in a gas.
Which object best reflects light? white floor
The gravitational attraction of the Moon causes which effect on Earth? ocean tides
A forest was cleared for the building of a resort, but before construction began, secondary succession set in. Which of these describes why secondary succession appeared so rapidly? The soil components remained for plants to grow.
Which object is made to reflect light? mirror
A car may produce many forms of energy from the fuel it uses. Which indicates that a car does not use fuel with 100% efficiency? The car engine gets hot.
After nitrogen becomes part of the lithosphere, what is the next change that nitrogen will undergo? fixed by bacteria in the soil
Which of the following would be more likely to pollute a river? spreading fertilizer near the river
For two organisms to be classified as the same species, they must produce offspring that are fertile.
Which sentence best describes the organization of the heart? The heart is an organ made up of different types of tissues, each of which has different types of cells.
Which stage in the reptile life cycle is most like the birth of a lion cub? hatching from an egg
What would be the best way to determine the role of squirrels in a forest ecosystem? make field observations of squirrels in their natural habitat
Which of the following systems breaks food into nutrients that can be used by the body? digestive
Barry collected four different rocks. The rock with the GREATEST mass will feel the ___. heaviest
Which of the following is not an inherited trait of humans? favorite food
When a person chews, saliva from the mouth mixes with starches in food. These starches begin to turn into sugars. Changing starches into sugars is best described as a chemical change.
Which of these renewable resources results in an increase in pollution when used to produce energy? biomass
Granite is an igneous rock. Which of these describes what usually happens to granite after it is weathered, broken into small particles, buried deep underground, and compacted? The granite becomes a new rock type.
The features below are all present on Earth. Which feature could also be found on the Moon? crater
What is the highest temperature that water can reach in a pot on a stove? 100°C
In 2004 the Hubble space telescope captured images of distant star clusters, each containing about a million stars. These star clusters were most likely part of which structure? a galaxy
Where is most of the mass of the atom located? in the nucleus
Which situation is the best example of ecological succession? One species replaces another species in an ecosystem.
The BEST way to tell the DIFFERENCE between an oak and a maple tree is to compare the shape of the leaves.
Which example describes a learned behavior in a dog? sitting on command
In a lab investigation, a student notes that two metal blocks have the same mass. Based on this observation, if the two blocks were put on opposite sides of a balance, they would best represent balanced forces.
A scientist was investigating why several fish caught from a local stream displayed similar mutations. He found that the water temperature of the stream was elevated since an industrial plant began discharging heated water into the stream. The scientist concluded that increased water temperature during the egg phase led to the mutation in the fish. According to this conclusion, the mutation was caused by an environmental condition.
Solar radiation has a part in the water cycle by changing water to a vapor.
A student sets a block at the top of a wooden ramp. The student pushes the block. As the block slides down the ramp, it slows down and then comes to a stop. What force causes the block to slow down? the force of friction
Which of these explains how a trench can form? two oceanic plates converging
Pepsin is an enzyme that acts in the stomach for protein digestion. Which of these is most likely the main role of pepsin in this metabolic reaction? to speed up the rate of reaction
Sodium chloride, commonly called "table salt," is made up of sodium and chlorine that have been combined chemically. Which term best describes sodium chloride? Compound
Katia was listening to music on the radio. In order for the sound to be produced, the electrical energy must be converted into which type of energy? mechanical energy
Studies of snail fossils in Egypt indicate that areas of Egypt that are now desert were once thriving savannahs approximately 130,000 years ago. What does the presence of these fossils indicate about the area of Egypt that was thriving 130,000 years ago? There was more humidity in the air.
Which statement identifies an energy source as renewable? Wind, because it is always available.
A wet towel will dry when it is left in the Sun. Which process occurs to make this happen? evaporation
Otto pushed a toy car across a floor. The car traveled fast across the wood, but it slowed to a stop on the carpet. Which best explains what happened when the car reached the carpet? Friction increased.
Eye color is a physical trait. Which statement best explains why a child has a specific eye color? Eye color is an inherited trait.
Manganese has an atomic number of 25 and an atomic mass of 55 amu. How many particles are found in its nucleus? 55
Students researched monkeys at a zoo. They recorded the monkeys' traits and behaviors. This investigation activity is best described as observing.
The fur of an arctic fox turns from brown to white as winter approaches. This is an example of camouflage
Which is an example of a chemical change? a rusting car fender
Which statement is describing climate? Last winter was colder than normal.
Scientists have categorized trees based on whether they keep or lose their leaves each year. Another logical way to categorize trees is based on the type of fruit that is produced.
Which resource is considered nonrenewable? fossil fuels
Sand and iron particles that are similar in size and color are mixed together in a beaker. What would be the best method of separating the particles? Use a magnet to separate them.
Which habitat on Earth would probably 28 add the greatest amount of water to the water cycle through evaporation? warm ocean
Which of these actions will change a sedimentary rock, such as limestone, into a metamorphic rock, such as marble? heat from magma
A loaf of bread is baking in a pan in a 350° F oven. What would cause a burn to a hand the quickest because of its low specific heat? the metal pan
A student poured some sugar into a glass of water. After the water was stirred, no solid sugar remained in the glass. Which statement best describes what happened? The sugar dissolved in water to form a solution.
The magnitude of the gravitational force between two planets depends on the distance between the planets.
The fossils that are found in the oldest layers of sedimentary rock were formed which types of organisms? only organisms that lived in the sea
A snail's shell provides the snail with protection.
Since green plants make their own food, they are called producers
Which metalloid is used in solar cells and computer chips? silicon
The best evidence that two land areas were once connected is the discovery that both land masses have similar types of rocks and fossils.
Rachel purchased a kit for making a skateboard ramp. Which of the following is most important to have for putting the ramp together? a set of instructions for the kit materials
What is the smallest particle of the element gold (Au) that can still be classified as gold? atom
Which best describes the function of the small intestine? digestion and absorption of food
A forest is flooded when a natural dam breaks, leaving the forest floor under two meters of water. Which animal is most affected by the flooding? a rabbit
Which object will most likely be attracted to a magnet? metal nail
At what temperature does pure water boil? 100°C
Animals that eat both plant matter and meat are referred to as omnivores.
Corals are animals that live in tropical oceans. Fossils of corals are found in Ohio. What does the presence of coral fossils suggest about how the environment of Ohio has changed over time? Ohio was once covered by warm seas.
Alex looked at an electric toothbrush that had a plug with three metal prongs. Why are these prongs made out of metal? Metal is a conductor and completes a circuit when you plug it into the outlet.
Where is an igneous rock such as pumice most likely formed? near a volcano
Why are many telescopes used far from cities? The light from the cities makes it hard to see stars.
Where do plants get energy from to make food? sunlight
Which of the following is most likely to cause water to change from one state of matter to another state of matter? a change in air temperature
When a soccer player kicks a ball, which two systems work directly with the muscular system? nervous and skeletal
Which two activities are carried out by all species of living things? grow and reproduce
Which best explains why a person infected with bacteria may have a fever? The body is responding to fight off the bacteria.
Most of the concentration of which gas results from the activity of producer organisms? oxygen
What is determined by the speed that Earth rotates on its axis? the length of a day
The spectrum of visible light can be seen in a rainbow because white light is refracted and dispersed.
Kate sees a full moon. About how much time will go by before the next full moon? one month
The sediments found in a riverbed are most likely a result of which action on nearby rock? weathering
The most common way humans contribute to the extinction of organisms is by destruction of habitat.
Which of the following is an example of matter changing state? heating a pan of water until the water is all gone
A car runs out of fuel while traveling on a level road and eventually comes to a stop. Which of the following best explains why the car stops? Some of the energy of the car was lost to friction.
Which of the following best represents one particular stage in a life cycle? a seed sprouting
Which process of the water cycle transports water from plants to clouds? transpiration
Sulfur scrubbers are devices installed in coal-fired power plants. Sulfur scrubbers reduce the emission of sulfur dioxide. What environmental problem are sulfur scrubbers most likely trying to address? acid rain
Which system of the human body provides protection to most of the major organs? skeletal system
A scientist developed a model that described the actions of DNA in the cell nuclei, which helped explain how traits were inherited. Which scientist helped develop this model? Watson
Which item is designed to change electrical energy into heat energy? Hand dryer
Which characteristic is the best example of an inherited trait? eye color
Which correctly arranges three scientific terms-theory, law, and hypothesis-from least to most accepted or tested? hypothesis, theory, law
The metal lid on a glass jar is hard to open, so it is held under warm, running water. What causes the jar to open easily after it was held under the water? The metal lid expanded under warm water.
A dung beetle is an insect that gathers waste from animals, rolls it into a compact ball, lays eggs in it, and buries it in the soil. This gives the eggs a warm, safe place to hatch and provides a food source for the developing larvae. Which impact does the dung beetle most likely have on its ecosystem? It helps return nutrients to the soil.
After playing outside on a cold day, Jaime went inside to wash his hands. Although the water was normal temperature, he noticed that it felt warmer than usual. What would explain this phenomenon? The water from the faucet had a higher temperature than his skin.
What is the relationship between tissues and organs? Organs are made from different types of tissues.
What will be the most likely result for some species of animals with the continued burning of rain forests in Africa? destruction of their habitats
Earthworms live underground in the soil. As they move through the soil, they create tunnels. The tunnels help improve the soil. Plants grow better in soil that has earthworms. Which statement explains how earthworm tunnels help plants? Earthworm tunnels loosen the soil so plant roots can easily grow
Which tools are best used to determine the speed of a turtle as it walks along a path? Stopwatch and meter stick
Which tool would a student use to measure wind speed? anemometer
Why would explorers use a compass when traveling to unknown lands? to locate a direction to travel
Which measurement tool is used to find the volume of a small piece of granite? graduated cylinder
What form of energy causes an ice cube to melt? heat
Which characteristic is most beneficial for an animal living on a snowy mountain? thick fur
Which of the following is a property of CO2 gas? It is colorless.
Which rapid changes can be caused by storms? landslides and flooding
Which is an example of a chemical reaction? nails rusting
Which unit of measurement can be used to describe the length of a desk? centimeters
The incompleteness of the fossil record results primarily from which phenomenon? the rarity with which organic remains are exposed to fossil-forming conditions
A student conducts an investigation. In order to make a valid conclusion, she must have a testable hypothesis.
The bonding of oxygen to red blood cells is important to the body because it enables the body to perform aerobic respiration in cells.
Some of Earth's water is stored underground in porous rock formations known as aquifers. Which of these could use up groundwater in aquifers? excessive pumping from wells
All plants and animals have mechanisms that transport nutrients
Which is the best tool to measure the angles of a triangular object? a protractor
All living organisms are dependent on plants because plants are producers
Compared to other stars in our galaxy, which is the best description of our Sun? average size, average temperature
While studying the relationship between number of trees and amount of atmospheric oxygen, which of the following would be most important to take into account? contributions to atmospheric oxygen from sources other than trees
A student is working on a science project display for the school science fair. To best communicate why her conclusions are valid, what should be included on the display? a complete write-up of her experimental method and data collected
Which of the following describes asexual reproduction? binary fission in an amoeba
Which scientist is known for his genetics experiments with pea plants? Gregor Mendel
On a cold, cloudy day, the local weather forecaster predicts that a high-pressure system will be moving into the area in the next 24 hours. Which weather conditions will this system most likely bring to the area? sunny
What determines if twins are identical? their genes
Which of these processes is a conversion made by solar panels? radiant energy to electrical energy
In fruit flies, red eyes are dominant over sepia eyes. A male with red eyes is crossed with a female with sepia eyes producing first generation offspring that all had sepia eyes. What does this indicate about the flies that were crossed? The male is heterozygous and the female is homozygous recessive for the trait.
Acid rain caused by industrial pollution greatly reduces the number of trees in a forested region that is home to a particular species of bird. How might this decrease in the number of trees most likely affect this bird population? The population will decrease due to lack of resources.
Which of these is the main function of a cell wall? To provide support
Which sentence about the periodic table of elements is true? Metals are found on the left side of the periodic table.
Salt concentration, water temperature, plankton, and the whale shark might all be used in a description of an ocean ecosystem.
Rocks can be classified many different ways, including as igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary. This classification is based on the origin of the rocks.
A mountain range has hills around its edges. How are the mountains and hills alike? Both are taller than the land around them.
Human muscle cells need nutrients and oxygen during exercise. The human body is able to meet the needs of the muscle cells during exercise by increasing circulation.
Phyllis investigated what happened when she added some different substances to water. Which substance can combine with water to form a solution? sugar
Fossil fuels are considered a nonrenewable resource because they take a long period of time to form.
A student is growing some plants for an experiment. She notices small white spots on the leaves. Which tool should she use to get a better look at the spots? hand lens
Why are seals able to live off the coast of Antarctica while frogs, snakes, and panthers are not? Seals have fur and blubber.
How are the functions of a carbohydrate and a lipid similar? Both are a source of energy.
Traveling in opposite directions, buses A and B are passing each other at the relative speed of 25 km/h, while a passenger on bus A walks toward the back of the bus at the speed of 5 km/h. What is the velocity of the passenger on bus A relative to bus B? 20 km/h in the direction of bus A
A student drops a ball. Which force causes the ball to fall to the ground? gravity
Hydrogen is located on the left side of the periodic table in the same column as the alkali metals, but it has characteristics of a nonmetal. Which of the following is a physical property of hydrogen? Hydrogen is a gas at room temperature.
In an experiment, a scientist named Pavlov rang a bell before he fed his dogs, which made the dogs drool. Soon the dogs would drool when they heard the bell, even if they did not receive any food. What type of response did the dogs exhibit? a learned behavior
Which invention will best help people travel quickly to far away places? airplane
What is an environmental threat posed by oil and gas acquisition and transport that is not posed by the acquisition and transport of the energy resources uranium, and wood? pipeline leaks
Some plant species are more tolerant of acidic soil than others. The tolerant species are favored in areas affected by which consequence of human activity? mixing of pollutants with rain
Which resource has the most potential for production of renewable electric energy? geothermal
A layer of solid brittle rock comprises the outer 100 kilometers of Earth. This layer, which contains both the crust and the upper mantle, is called the lithosphere.
During its lifetime, which object is known to change in brightness, color, and temperature? star
What causes a free falling object to accelerate? gravity
What is the main source of energy that drives all weather patterns? the Sun
What is one factor that contributes to seasons occurring in New York State? the tilt of Earth on its axis
Which cell part is correctly paired with its function? nucleus-controls cell activities
A meeting of scientists, called a symposium, occurs every year to share recent research about the atmosphere of Earth. This symposium mainly serves which purpose in science? to discuss the meaning of new discoveries
A wind turbine primarily uses which type of energy? mechanical
A rubber band will make a sound when it is vibrated.
What would a warm air mass over the ocean most likely cause? rainfall
The Moon is visible to observers on Earth because of reflected sunlight
Which illness is always caused by an infection? influenza
Jonny climbed an apple tree. How are Jonny and the apple tree similar to each other? Both are made of cells.
What are the names of the products in the chemical equation shown below? HCl + NaHCO_{3} -> NaCl + CO_{2} + H_{2}O sodium chloride, carbon dioxide, and water
A ball is tossed up in the air and it comes back down. The ball comes back down because of gravity
Timber companies can best manage the number of trees in forests by planting trees to replace what they cut down.
The formation of the Himalayan Mountains is one example of land features caused by compressive forces. Which action most likely led to the formation of these mountains? colliding plates
What abiotic factor would most likely signal a population of birds that it is time to migrate from north to south? decrease in sunlight
A greenhouse is used as a model of the atmosphere. Which of the following cannot be demonstrated by the model? changes in greenhouse gases
A light bulb manufacturer claims its light bulb is "twice as bright" per unit of electrical energy consumed as the leading light bulb. If this claim is correct, what factor must be accurately compared between the two bulbs? how much heat each bulb releases
In the 17th century, Gregor Mendel crossed pea plants with different traits and observed the results in their offspring. To which of these did Mendel contribute most directly with his work? science of heredity and variation
How does the appearance of a constellation change during the night? Its position appears to shift relative to the horizon.
The freezing and thawing action of water affects a rock by gradually breaking down the rock into smaller pieces.
Delilah put a container of water in the freezer and left it there overnight. The next morning she saw that the water in the container had changed to ice. Which of the following statements best explains why the water changed to ice? Heat was taken away from the water.
Earth's rotation (turning on its axis) causes day and night.
Which of the following climates has cold winters and hot summers? temperate
What form of energy is being used when a person pushes a wooden block across the floor? mechanical
Which action is an example of good water management? turning off the faucet when brushing teeth
An Earth year is the length of time it takes for Earth to revolve once around the Sun
Which land form results when carbonic acid in groundwater seeps through rock and dissolves limestone? caverns
Which part of a DNA molecule represents encoded information? guanine
Early scientists most likely saw a discharge of electricity for the first time when observing a lightning storm
In humans, the amount of sugar in blood is controlled by the release of a hormone called insulin. This process is an example of regulation
It is necessary to add a day to the calendar every four years because the revolution of Earth is not exactly 365 days.
Which tool would be best to measure the length of a butterfly? metric ruler
Scientists invented a liquid that removes grease and keeps the skin soft. How could this discovery most likely be used? to improve dish soap
The first step in the water cycle is evaporation. What gives water the energy to evaporate? Sun
On a warm sunny afternoon, ocean water splashed onto a rock. A short time later, the rock was dry. Which statement best explains what happened to the water on the rock? Heat caused the water to become a gas.
Which is a nonrenewable natural resource that is used to make electrical energy? coal
Which process initiates the passage of half of a parent's DNA to offspring? meiosis
Which resource provides the minerals plants need to grow? soil
At what time on a sunny day will the shadow of the school's flagpole be the shortest? noon
Animals get energy for growth and repair from food
A flower produces seeds that fall to the ground and grow into new plants that produce more flowers. The seeds begin to grow by the process of germination.
A rock has most likely traveled a long distance from its place of origin if it is rounded and smooth.
Which of the following best explains why the tectonic plates of Earth move? heat convection from the mantle
Over a long period of time, a rocky volcanic island that previously did not support any form of life got transformed into a dense forested region. Which of these species is most likely to have been the pioneer species that initiated this transformation? lichens
The formation of coal deposits occurred over millions of years. Which feature was most responsible for these deposits? swamps with dense vegetation
A teacher is performing a demonstration about static electricity for his class by rubbing a balloon against a wool sweater. The balloon sticks to the wool sweater. Which particles are exchanged during the demonstration? electrons
