Ian volunteered to eat Dennis's menudo after already having a bowl because Dennis despised eating intestine.
Ian volunteered to eat Dennis's menudo after already having a bowl because Ian enjoyed eating intestine.
He never comes to my home, but I always go to his house because the home is smaller.
He never comes to my home, but I always go to his house because the house is bigger.
Kyle doesn't wear leg warmers to bed, while Logan almost always does. Logan is more likely to live in a colder climate.
Kyle doesn't wear leg warmers to bed, while Logan almost always does. Kyle is more likely to live in a warmer climate.
The GPS and map helped me navigate home. I got lost when the map got turned upside down.
The GPS and map helped me navigate home. I got lost when the GPS got turned off.
Emily looked up and saw Patricia racing by overhead, as Patricia was on the ramp .
Emily looked up and saw Patricia racing by overhead, as Emily was under the ramp .
The treasury workers took the gold bars off of the trolley and stacked them in the safe until the trolley was empty.
The treasury workers took the gold bars off of the trolley and stacked them in the safe until the safe was full.
He thought he had time to take the scenic route to the store, but the route was under construction.
He thought he had time to take the scenic route to the store, but the store was closed early.
She remembered how annoying it is to dust her wood chair so she bought a plastic table instead. Cleaning the table is quick.
She remembered how annoying it is to dust her wood chair so she bought a plastic table instead. Cleaning the chair is time consuming.
To overcome behavioural bias, we need to focus more on changing the conscious actions instead of the unconscious actions because the conscious actions are voluntary.
To overcome behavioural bias, we need to focus more on changing the conscious actions instead of the unconscious actions because the unconscious actions are involuntary.
Megan has a lot less money than Jessica because Jessica just bought the winning lottery ticket.
Megan has a lot more money than Jessica because Megan just bought the winning lottery ticket.
I picked up a bag of peanuts and raisins for a snack. I wanted a sweeter snack out so I stored the peanuts for now.
I picked up a bag of peanuts and raisins for a snack. I wanted a sweeter snack out so I ate the raisins for now.
Craig really loves to clean all the time but Derrick does not because Craig is very neat.
Craig really loves to clean all the time but Derrick does not because Derrick is very untidy.
Dennis gave his hammer to Robert so he could hammer the nails. Dennis had plenty of hammers.
Dennis gave his hammer to Robert so he could hammer the nails. Robert had no hammers.
The party was more interesting and uplifing than the funeral because the funeral was rigid.
The party was more interesting and uplifting than the funeral because the party was flexible.
The geese prefer to nest in the fields rather than the forests because in the forests predators are more hidden.
The geese prefer to nest in the fields rather than the forests because in the fields predators are very visible.
The plant took up too much room in the urn, because the urn was small.
The plant took up too much room in the urn, because the plant was large.
I installed a new bird house outside above the ground, but had to prop it up higher away from my cat since the bird house was too low.
I installed a new bird house outside above the ground, but had to prop it up higher away from my cat since the ground was too high.
I prefer spa to the pool and I find the cold water in the pool not relaxing at the end of the day.
I prefer spa to the pool and I find the hot water in the spa relaxing at the end of the day.
Megan said it would be liberating to go out without makeup like Elena does. Elena never wore makeup when she left the house.
Megan said it would be liberating to go out without makeup like Elena does. Megan always wore makeup when she left the house.
Donald was richer than Leslie was because companies had found oil on the property of Donald .
Donald was poorer than Leslie was because companies had found oil on the property of Leslie .
Feeling a draft, William asked Neil to please close the front door because Neil was closer.
Feeling a draft, William asked Neil to please close the front door because William was farther away.
Lindsey loved the taste of duck but Megan liked chicken better. Megan ordered the kung pao chicken for dinner.
Lindsey loved the taste of duck but Megan liked chicken better. Lindsey ordered the Peking Duck for dinner.
Elena would grab their inventory in the back of the store for Megan to sell each time because Megan was a loyal customer.
Elena would grab their inventory in the back of the store for Megan to sell each time because Elena was a businessperson.
Kenneth asked Dennis what time the dance was being held, but Dennis had forgotten.
Kenneth asked Dennis what time the dance was being held, because Kenneth had forgotten.
Eric was teaching all of the proper stretches to Neil, because Eric was using them to get paid.
Eric was teaching all of the proper stretches to Neil, because Neil was using them to get in shape.
When buying a home, Patricia doesn't have as much money to spend as Tanya, so Tanya buys a 5 bedroom house.
When buying a home, Patricia doesn't have as much money to spend as Tanya, so Patricia buys a 1 bedroom house.
I wanted to buy small tweezer to fit in my wristlet, but they still didn't fit. The wristlet were too small.
I wanted to buy small tweezer to fit in my wristlet, but they still didn't fit. The tweezer were too big.
Handling emergencies was never very difficult for Kevin but it was for Nelson because Kevin could remain calm under pressure.
Handling emergencies was never very difficult for Kevin but it was for Nelson because Nelson wasn't able to remain calm under pressure.
Emily asked her sister Sarah if she needed any tampons or pads from the store, even though Emily didn't because she had switched to using menstrual cups.
Emily asked her sister Sarah if she needed any tampons or pads from the store, but Sarah didn't because she had switched to using menstrual cups.
Elena had a horrendous coughing fit from the pollen, unlike Tanya , since Tanya was immune to allergies.
Elena had a horrendous coughing fit from the pollen, unlike Tanya , since Elena was susceptible to allergies.
Rebecca picked up Amy to carpool to work every day, so Rebecca asked for some gas money.
Rebecca picked up Amy to carpool to work every day, so Amy offered some gas money.
Jennifer discreetly admitted to Erin that she didn't know how to apply eye shadow. Erin was reassuring.
Jennifer discreetly admitted to Erin that she didn't know how to apply eye shadow. Jennifer was embarrassed.
The employees threw a party and drank so much alcohol that they could not go into work the next day. The party was loud.
The employees threw a party and drank so much alcohol that they could not go into work the next day. The alcohol was copious.
Once in Poland, Dennis enjoyed the trip more than Jason because Jason had a shallow understanding of the Polish language.
Once in Poland, Dennis enjoyed the trip more than Jason because Dennis had a deeper understanding of the Polish language.
The house Benjamin designed for Joseph was beautiful, so Benjamin used it in his portfolio.
The house designed for Benjamin by Joseph was beautiful, so Joseph used it in his portfolio.
John poured the entire bowl of fish into the hot pan on the stove until the pan was full.
John poured the entire bowl of fish into the hot pan on the stove until the bowl was empty.
Sue wanted to practice meditation so she went to the gym with her class but the gym was too busy.
Sue wanted to practice meditation so she went to the gym with her class but the class was too late.
Natalie thinks emeralds are beautiful gems but Betty does not. Betty bought a necklace featuring a big diamond.
Natalie thinks emeralds are beautiful gems but Betty does not. Natalie bought a necklace featuring a big emerald.
Aaron hung his hunting rifle over the hearth after the most recent trip ended up with Benjamin making the fatal shot. Aaron was happy for him.
Aaron hung his hunting rifle over the hearth after the most recent trip ended up with Benjamin making the fatal shot. Benjamin was happy for himself.
Kevin is far more physically versatile than Nick, because Nick is an injured athlete in bed.
Kevin is far more physically versatile than Nick, because Kevin is a seasoned athlete in training.
Adam put handwash only clothes in the washer but Aaron washed them by hand as Adam was lazy.
Adam put handwash only clothes in the washer but Aaron washed them by hand as Aaron was conscientious.
Kyle loves the flavor of apricots but Matthew likes plums better. Matthew couldn't wait for plum season.
Kyle loves the flavor of apricots but Matthew likes plums better. Kyle couldn't wait for apricot season.
Derrick was unable to stay focused at work unlike Justin, because Justin had a fun job.
Derrick was unable to stay focused at work unlike Justin, because Derrick had a boring job.
Avery was debating on taking up German instead of Latin, because the German was newer.
Avery was debating on taking up German instead of Latin, because the Latin was old.
Kayla dated many more people at once than Betty, because Betty was in an open relationship.
Kayla dated many more people at once than Betty, because Kayla was in an exclusive relationship.
Steven proudly showed Michael the mangoes he grew himself all this summer. Steven is hardworking.
Steven proudly showed Michael the mangoes he grew himself all this summer. Michael is astonished.
The letter that Joel has written is being read by Adam, so Joel is the writer.
The letter that Joel has written is being read by Adam, so Adam is the editor.
Kyle was more comfortable speaking in front of large groups than Nick, because Kyle had taken public speaking courses in college.
Kyle was more comfortable speaking in front of large groups than Nick, because Nick was not able to take public speaking courses in college.
In the lagoon Emily swam in the nude while Felicia opted for a full body swimsuit. Felicia was very hesitant with showing their body.
In the lagoon Emily swam in the nude while Felicia opted for a full body swimsuit. Emily was very free with showing their body.
Sarah Jane's watch smashed when the book hit it since the book was too strong.
Sarah Jane's watch smashed when the book hit it since the watch was too weak.
Joseph had to have well manicured nails for work, but not Kevin, because Joseph worked at a bank.
Joseph had to have well manicured nails for work, but not Kevin, because Kevin worked at a farm.
While out playing golf, Dennis fell in the mud, but Christopher kept their balance because Christopher had spiked shoes on.
While out playing golf, Dennis fell in the mud, but Christopher kept their balance, because Dennis had slippery shoes on.
I couldn't control the moisture like I controlled the rain, because the rain was coming in at one spot.
I couldn't control the moisture like I controlled the rain, because the moisture was coming in everywhere.
Leslie was fascinated with collecting new shoes compared to Derrick, because Leslie loved fashion trends.
Leslie was fascinated with collecting new shoes compared to Derrick, because Derrick hated fashion trends.
Jessica thought Sandstorm was the greatest song ever written but Patricia hated it. Patricia bought a ticket to the jazz concert.
Jessica thought Sandstorm was the greatest song ever written but Patricia hated it. Jessica bought a ticket to the Darude rave.
Bill poured the entire bowl of cheese snack into his mouth until the bowl was empty.
Bill poured the entire bowl of cheese snack into his mouth until the mouth was full.
Ben played soccer and bowling every week. However, it was easy for him to play in the soccer game because he hurt his arm.
Ben played soccer and bowling every week. However, it was difficult for him to play in the bowling game because he hurt his arm.
Nick had a bigger dog than Craig because Nick fed their dog much more food.
Nick had a smaller dog than Craig because Craig fed their dog much more food.
There was more shade in the yard of Christine than there was in the yard of Victoria because Christine had more plants.
There was more shade in the yard of Christine than there was in the yard of Victoria because Victoria had less plants.
Kyle loves chocolate and candy and Steven loves pickles and lemons. Steven loves sour foods.
Kyle loves chocolate and candy and Steven loves pickles and lemons. Kyle loves sweet foods.
Since Benjamin ate unhealthy desserts far more frequently than Brett, Brett had strong will power.
Since Benjamin ate unhealthy desserts far more frequently than Brett, Benjamin had weak will power.
Eric asked Michael on a date to go to the movies on Friday night because Eric was very confident.
Eric asked Michael on a date to go to the movies Friday night because Michael was very attractive.
Amy hated the smell of bleach, but still Kayla used it all the time to clean so Kayla tries to use it less.
Amy hated the smell of bleach, but still Kayla used it all the time to clean so Amy always leaves the house.
Eric looked at Neil in shock and started to react violently because Neil lied to him.
Eric looked at Neil in shock and started to react violently because Eric felt betrayed.
Matthew made sure to use an oil lubricant when expanding his piercing, unlike Jeffrey, so the painful experience from Jeffrey made a lot of sense.
Matthew made sure to use an oil lubricant when expanding his piercing, unlike Jeffrey, so the agreeable experience from Matthew made a lot of sense.
Samantha brought a get well card to the hospital but Emily forgot to because Emily was preoccupied.
Samantha brought a get well card to the hospital but Emily forgot to because Samantha was thoughtful.
Jessica took off the gloves and gave them to Katrina because Katrina 's hands were cold.
Jessica took off the gloves and gave them to Katrina because Jessica 's hands were warm.
The lawsuit bankrupted the company, causing Megan to be let go from their job while Mary was promoted. Mary felt relieved and elated.
The lawsuit bankrupted the company, causing Megan to be let go from their job while Mary was promoted. Megan felt depressed and hopeless.
John's certification was less important that Jim's degree because the certification was from a minor University.
John's certification was less important that Jim's degree because the degree was from a major University.
They opted not to go to the dance but to the movie instead, the movie seemed like a proper destination for their date.
They opted not to go to the dance but to the movie instead, the dance seemed like an inappropriate destination for their date.
The thermostat showed that it was twenty degrees cooler downstairs than it was upstairs, so Byron stayed in the downstairs because he was hot.
The thermostat showed that it was twenty degrees cooler downstairs than it was upstairs, so Byron stayed in the upstairs because he was cold.
Michael wanted to take Craig out on the water in his new boat. Michael said it would be fun to show him the ropes.
Michael wanted to take Craig out on the water in his new boat. Craig said it would be confusing to see how the boat works.
Come over here and take a look at my scalp today Natalie told Katrina, Katrina hates providing her opinion.
Come over here and take a look at my scalp today Natalie told Katrina, Natalie needs a second opinion.
The sushi rotted on the counter unless it was put in the cooler, as the counter exposed it to contamination.
The sushi rotted on the counter unless it was put in the cooler, as the cooler protected it from contamination.
The contract could not be drafted at the business during that day because the contract was too small to care about.
The contract could not be drafted at the business during that day because the business was too big to care about it.
Laura always had more motivation in life and achieving goals than Katrina, as Laura was optimistic.
Laura always had more motivation in life and achieving goals than Katrina, as Katrina was lazy.
Ben had to either stop eating chocolates or nuts. He chose to stop eating the nuts because they were savory.
Ben had to either stop eating chocolates or nuts. He chose to stop eating the chocolates because they were sweet.
James was looking if there is any space to put the book into the shelf. The space is small.
James was looking if there is any space to put the book into the shelf. The book is big.
James was writing a poem on his jotter when the ink finished. The poem is a long .
James was writing a poem on his jotter when the ink finished. The ink is a low.
The couple drank wine out of glasses instead of mugs, because the glasses were clean.
The couple drank wine out of glasses instead of mugs, because the mugs were dirty.
Dividing the candy was more difficult than dividing the apples because every kid wanted the candy .
Dividing the candy was more difficult than dividing the apples because no kid wanted the apples .
Brian wanted to be a home based administrative assistant and Kenneth didn't because Brian liked staying at home.
Brian wanted to be a home based administrative assistant and Kenneth didn't because Kenneth did not like staying at home.
Brian had a large collection of coins that Kevin really admired, so Kevin asked him for some duplicates.
Brian had a large collection of coins that Kevin really admired, so Brian offered him some duplicates.
William forgot about all the times when Ian saved them, despite how Ian was generally self-sacrificing.
William forgot about all the times when Ian saved them, because William was generally self-involved.
Katrina's being taught how to speak Korean by Felicia, so Felicia was most likely born in Korea.
Katrina's being taught how to speak Korean by Felicia, so Katrina was most likely born in the US.
Jason denied Ian's passport application because Ian did not provide the correct paperwork in time.
Jason denied Ian's passport application because Jason did not receive the correct paperwork in time.
I wanted a combination of Vanilla and tea tree essence scents but it smelled like Vanilla because the tea tree essence was too weak.
I wanted a combination of Vanilla and tea tree essence scents but it smelled like Vanilla because the Vanilla essence was too strong.
I'd rather play on a soccer team than be a kicker on a foot ball team since the foot ball is harder to kick.
I'd rather play on a soccer team than be a kicker on a foot ball team since the soccer ball is easier to kick.
Kyle thought the temperature was too warm while William thought it was too cold, so Kyle turned the heat down.
Kyle thought the temperature was too warm while William thought it was too cold, so William turned the heat up.
William wanted an egg for breakfast, but Kevin ate the last one, so Kevin had to give them cereal.
William wanted an egg for breakfast, but Kevin ate the last one, so William had to eat cereal.
The woman sprayed cleaner on the mirror but skipped the countertop because the countertop was clean.
The woman sprayed cleaner on the mirror but skipped the countertop because the mirror was dirty.
Justin wrote a paragraph in his planner every day unlike Matthew because Matthew was disorganized.
Justin wrote a paragraph in his planner every day unlike Matthew because Justin was organized.
The children could only count the number of balls in one jar and not the beans in the other because the beans were too numerous.
The children could only count the number of balls in one jar and not the beans in the other because the balls were more manageable.
Erin is known an an entrepreneur while Victoria is only an employee because Erin owns a business.
Erin is known as an entrepreneur while Victoria is only an employee because Victoria doesn't yet own a business.
Since Adam arrived at work later Dennis would eat their lunch before Adam in the break room at their job.
Since Dennis arrived at work sooner Dennis would eat their lunch before Adam in the break room at their job.
The stomach of Neil was rumbling, but Samuel seemed fine, due to Neil being hungry.
The stomach of Neil was rumbling, but Samuel seemed fine, due to Samuel being satiated.
After Logan contracted the chickenpox from Joseph so Joseph spent the day sending nice texts about it.
After Logan contracted the chickenpox from Joseph so Logan spent the day sending mean texts about it.
The man wanted to put the luggage in the house but the house was too small.
The man wanted to put the luggage in the house but the luggage was too large.
The experience was totally unforgettable for Betty but not Samantha because Samantha had dreaded it for months.
The experience was totally unforgettable for Betty but not Samantha because Betty had anticipated it for months.
Kyle got a new cell phone and showed it to Leslie because Kyle was happy about the new phone.
Kyle got a new cell phone and showed it to Leslie but Leslie was upset about the new phone.
When one experiences cramps they can get into a warm bath or use a heating pad, but the bath is more of an inconvenience.
When one experiences cramps they can get into a warm bath or use a heating pad, but the heating pad is more convenient.
Neil agreed to help wash Adam's large dog, and Neil was very eager to help.
Neil agreed to help wash Adam's large dog, and Adam was very grateful for the help.
Cricket is a favorite past time of Lindsey, while Rachel has never heard of it. Rachel is more likely to be American.
Cricket is a favorite past time of Lindsey, while Rachel has never heard of it. Lindsey is more likely to be British.
It was clear that Jessica understood and was entertained by the article from Monica because Jessica was the reader.
It was clear that Jessica understood and was entertained by the article from Monica because Monica was the writer.
In an effort to control kennel cough, Emily sent Maria to get the medication but Maria was busy examining the animals.
In an effort to control kennel cough, Emily sent Maria to get the medication because Emily was busy examining the animals.
Jan poured the entire cup of lemon juice into the bowl bananas until the cup was empty.
Jan poured the entire cup of lemon juice into the bowl bananas until the bowl was full.
The insurance company blamed Leslie instead of Logan for the accident since Logan had a green light.
The insurance company blamed Leslie instead of Logan for the accident since Leslie ran a red light.
The chef decided to store the food in the container but the food was too large.
The chef decided to store the food in the container but the container was too small.
My sister enjoyed writing on the blog more than in her journal, because the blog for everyone to see.
My sister enjoyed writing on the blog more than in her journal, because the journal for nobody to see.
Derrick spent the entire summer laying on the hot beach, while Jeffrey spent the summer indoors, so Derrick 's hair had more sun damage.
Derrick spent the entire summer laying on the hot beach, while Jeffrey spent the summer indoors, so Jeffrey 's hair had less sun damage.
This menu was very eclectic. They served everything from a three tiered burger to sushi to omeletes. The burger was juicy.
This menu was very eclectic. They served everything from a three tiered burger to sushi to omeletes. The sushi was raw.
the statistics show many females compared to the males are being born everyday, the males are few.
the statistics show many females compared to the males are being born everyday, the females are many.
Robert made the choice to buy Neil's house, so Neil had a lot more money in the bank afterwards.
Robert made the choice to buy Neil's house, so Robert had a lot less money in the bank afterwards.
The medical exam for the broken arm was longer than the exam on the heart because the arm was a serious problem.
The medical exam for the broken arm was shorter than the exam on the heart because the heart was a serious problem.
When opening up about their crushes, Kenneth sighed at Jeffrey because Jeffrey forgot who their crush was.
When opening up about their crushes, Kenneth laughed at Jeffrey because Kenneth remembered who their crush was.
Jack loved math and disliked social sciences, so when deciding to take sociology or math that semester, the counselor entered the math because Jack was receptive to it.
Jack loved math and disliked social sciences, so when deciding to take sociology or math that semester, the counselor deleted the sociology because Jack was resistant to it.
Christopher wanted to be a specialist but not Adam because Christopher had an interest in a limited number of subjects.
Christopher wanted to be a specialist but not Adam because Adam had an interest in a many number of subjects.
Megan enjoyed summer while Felicia did not. Felicia spent much time indoors.
Megan enjoyed summer while Felicia did not. Megan spent much time at the beach.
John could not remove the wallpaper attached to the wall with a glue without the wallpaper tearing apart. The wallpaper is weak.
John could not remove the wallpaper attached to the wall with a glue without the wallpaper tearing apart. The glue is strong.
The counselor treated the child who suffered from abuse by giving her a teddy instead of a blanket because the blanket was boring.
The counselor treated the child who suffered from abuse by giving her a teddy instead of a blanket because the teddy was comforting.
John cared for the pot while it was being transported in the box but it eventually got broken. The box is hard.
John cared for the pot while it was being transported in the box but it eventually got broken. The pot is fragile.
Donald offered Leslie their last stick of mint gum as Donald had a minty breath already.
Donald offered Leslie their last sick some mint gum as Leslie had a stinky breath already.
After Samuel won the cherry jam contest, Kyle still believed they should have won since Kyle sweetened with low calorie sweetener and the judges went by taste.
After Samuel won the cherry jam contest, Kyle still believed they should have won since Samuel sweetened with high calorie sweetener and the judges went by taste.
Felicia looked sad and disappointed after she asked Christine refused to be her girlfriend because Felicia liked her.
Felicia looked sad and disappointed after she asked Christine refused to be her girlfriend because Christine she was not lesbian.
Matthew wants to sell Kevin tickets to the football game because Matthew needs the money.
Matthew wants to sell Kevin tickets to the football game but Kevin has no money.
Elena told Natalie to put the hood of her jacket up because Natalie was likely to get cold.
Elena told Natalie to put the hood of her jacket up because Elena didn't want her to get cold.
Lawrence made a bowl at the pottery store and Randy accidentally broke it. Lawrence decided to make another.
Lawrence made a bowl at the pottery store and Randy accidentally broke it. Randy offered to make another.
The node on the head needed medication applied to its area because the node was swollen.
The node on the head needed medication applied to its area because the medication would contract it.
Sue traditionally donated old clothes to her favorite charity but in recent years has just written them checks as the checks were better received.
Sue traditionally donated old clothes to her favorite charity but in recent years has just written them checks as the clothes were worse received.
Matthew offered to help write a fitness plan for Christopher because Christopher was out of shape.
Matthew offered to help write a fitness plan for Christopher because Matthew was a personal trainer.
The waves destroyed the garage but left the house intact because the garage was so close to the shore.
The waves destroyed the garage but left the house intact because the house was so far from the shore.
Katrina sells Maria a rug at the local flea market because Maria is a customer.
Katrina sells Maria a rug at the local flea market because Katrina is a vendor.
Joan's grandmother always wanted a hug and a kiss, but Joan preferred the hug because she was afraid of germs.
Joan's grandmother always wanted a hug and a kiss, but Joan didn't like the kiss because she was afraid of germs.
The library kept an enormous collection of novels but not comics because the comics were dull.
The library kept an enormous collection of novels but not comics because the novels were popular.
Carrie's store has more loyal customers than Patricia's store does because Carrie 's store is older.
Carrie's store has more loyal customers than Patricia's store does because Patricia 's store is newer.
Christine didn't pass the lie detection test that Jessica did because Christine had something to hide.
Christine didn't pass the lie detection test that Jessica did because Jessica had nothing to hide.
Carrie faced the fan away from Angela because Carrie was getting too warm in the kitchen.
Carrie faced the fan toward Angela because Angela was getting too warm in the kitchen.
The winter made Jason's hands dry, but not Leslie's, since Jason always forgot to moisturize at night.
The winter made Jason's hands dry, but not Leslie's, since Leslie never forgot to moisturize at night.
Because Carrie lost a bet to Cynthia over the basketball game, Cynthia spent hours having the cleaning done for them.
Because Carrie lost a bet to Cynthia over the basketball game, Carrie spent hours doing the cleaning.
I would rather listen to the radio than watch the TV at night since I find the TV disruptive.
I would rather listen to the radio than watch the TV at night since I find the radio soothing.
Randy started his own business while Ryan worked for someone else so Randy had self-employment taxes.
Randy started his own business while Ryan worked for someone else so Ryan had W4 taxes.
Her boyfriend regretted buying her a jacket and got her a new hat instead, as he knew she thought the hat was a perfect match for her wardrobe.
Her boyfriend regretted buying her a jacket and got her a new hat instead, as he knew she thought the jacket was a bad match for her wardrobe.
Monica wanted to use a vacuum to clean the floor, but Victoria wanted to use a broom. Victoria cleaned the floor much slower.
Monica wanted to use a vacuum to clean the floor, but Victoria wanted to use a broom. Monica cleaned the floor much quicker.
I used several sprays to get rid of the bedbugs but they didn't work, because the sprays were powerless.
I used several sprays to get rid of the bedbugs but they didn't work, because the bedbugs were powerful.
Monica enjoyed watching Western films while Natalie enjoyed romantic ones more because Monica grew up on a farm.
Monica enjoyed watching Western films while Natalie enjoyed romantic ones more because Natalie grew up watching soap operas.
There were more books at the library than at the bookstore because the library was bigger.
There were more books at the library than at the bookstore because the bookstore was smaller.
Drawing was a talent of Sarah but not Carrie so Carrie was always eager to see her artwork .
Drawing was a talent of Sarah but not Carrie so Sarah was always eager to show her her artwork .
Emily spent a lot of money on their smartphone but Rachel bought a cheap one because Rachel was very dowdy.
Emily spent a lot of money on their smartphone but Rachel bought a cheap one because Emily was very stylish.
Tea and coffee should be drunk out of different vessels, cups and mugs respectively. Coffee is usually served in the mug , with milk and sometimes sugar.
Tea and coffee should be drunk out of different vessels, cups and mugs respectively. Tea is usually served in the cup , with milk and sometimes sugar.
Neil asked Michael what it was like to go to war because Neil was a pacifist.
Neil asked Michael what it was like to go to war because Michael was ex-military.
I went into the mine looking for diamonds but all I found was quartz and topaz. I settled on the quartz because it was almost clear.
I went into the mine looking for diamonds but all I found was quartz and topaz. I settled on the topaz because it shined yellow.
The chef thinks it's more healthy to eat apples than beets, so he hates putting the beets in his smoothies.
The chef thinks it's more healthy to eat apples than beets, so he likes putting the apples in his smoothies.
Jennifer was at risk of encountering a shark during their swim, but Emily was not, because Jennifer swam in the ocean.
Jennifer was at risk of encountering a shark during their swim, but Emily was not, because Emily swam in the lake.
The documents contained in the files could not fit properly. The Files were too small.
The documents contained in the files could not fit properly. The Documents were too large.
Avid bookworms, Lawrence read fiction while Jason read non-fiction. Lawrence liked to escape into an imaginary world.
Avid bookworms, Lawrence read fiction while Jason read non-fiction. Jason struggled to escape into an imaginary world.
Mary only wore stripes to work and not plaids because the plaids made her look sloppy.
Mary only wore stripes to work and not plaids because the stripes made her look professional.
The bumper on the car shone brighter than the handle on the car because the handle was dirtier.
The bumper on the car shone brighter than the handle on the car because the bumper was cleaner.
Ian is making a pool party for Neil and needs to raise pH in a pool, so Neil could safely enjoy party.
Ian is making a pool party for Neil and needs to raise pH in a pool, so Ian buys pH raising preparates.
While Billie brought a pencil, I brought a pen to the realtor’s office. I gave Billie my pen and she gladly used the pen to sign the document.
While Billie brought a pencil, I brought a pen to the realtor’s office. I gave Billie my pen but she stubbornly used the pencil to sign the document.
No one was able to enjoy the story and we started to listen to the music. The story is boring.
No one was able to enjoy the story and we started to listen to the music. The music is interesting.
The teeth of Katrina are more yellow than Laura's due to Laura drinking mostly water all the time.
The teeth of Katrina are more yellow than Laura's due to Katrina drinking mostly coffee all the time.
It was necessary to hit the iron with the sledgehammer after the iron got heated.
It was necessary to hit the iron with the sledgehammer before the sledgehammer got heated.
Kevin didn't consider the costs when they bought the house from Derrick, so Derrick was rid of the money pit.
Kevin didn't consider the costs when they bought the house from Derrick, so Kevin was stuck with the money pit.
Robert helped create an internet viral video sensation of Kyle when Kyle danced in video.
Robert helped create an internet viral video sensation of Kyle when Robert directed the video.
Rebecca invited Maria to a concert, then Maria had to get permission to attend from their parents.
Rebecca was invited to a concert by Maria, then Rebecca had to get permission to attend from their parents.
Betty was able to hold the pigeon longer than Angela because Angela is scared of birds.
Betty was able to hold the pigeon longer than Angela because Betty wasn't scared of birds.
Nick gets jock itch a lot, while Jason has never even worn a jock strap. Jason is the artist.
Nick gets jock itch a lot, while Jason has never even worn a jock strap. Nick is the athlete.
The theraband that Jill purchased for herself would not fit around her leg, the leg was too wide.
The theraband that Jill purchased for herself would not fit around her leg, the theraband was too narrow.
James could not get the bag closed because of the clothe in it. The bag is small.
James could not get the bag closed because of the clothe in it. The cloth is plenty.
Michelle made her biscuits with shortening and no butter at all, because she thought the shortening made them taste lighter.
Michelle made her biscuits with shortening and no butter at all, because she thought the butter made them too heavy.
Dennis has been away on vacation, while Nelson stayed home so the lettuce in Dennis 's fridge was rotten.
Dennis has been away on vacation, while Nelson stayed at home so the lettuce in Nelson 's fridge was used to make a salad.
Jen put her derma roller into the water, so that the cleaner could sterilize it with the water .
Jen put her derma roller into the water, so that the cleaner could sterilize the derma roller .
The case James used to carry the file still got more space in it. I wonder why he chose the file that is small.
The case James used to carry the file still got more space in it. I wonder why he chose the case that is big.
Learning to play a glockenspiel was instinctual for Derrick but not Adam because Derrick is arty.
Learning to play a glockenspiel was instinctual for Derrick but not Adam because Adam is unmusical.
My knee joint is less injured than my ankle joint so I'm trying not to put too much stress on the ankle joint if I can help it.
My knee joint is more injured than my ankle joint so I'm trying not to put too much stress on the knee joint if I can help it.
Donald didn't like to keep clean the way Matthew did, so Matthew tended to smell nice.
Donald didn't like to keep clean the way Matthew did, so Donald tended to smell nasty.
The man realized he had gotten the lens for his glasses instead of his camera, the camera lens was much thicker.
The man realized he had gotten the lens for his glasses instead of his camera, the glasses lens was much thinner.
Sunday afternoon Laura made some buttermilk biscuits for Victoria, and Laura made quick work of making them.
Sunday afternoon Laura made some buttermilk biscuits for Victoria, and Victoria made quick work of eating them.
To cope with her problems the teenager wrote in the journal and not the diary since the journal 's pages were bigger.
To cope with her problems the teenager wrote in the journal and not the diary since the diary 's pages were smaller.
Bob tore his shirt that was a night shirt. He decided to get a tuxedo shirt because the tuxedo shirt is new.
Bob tore his shirt that was a night shirt. He decided to get a tuxedo shirt because the night shirt is old.
Hunter was suicidal and Robert responded for the reason that Hunter had never been in this critical situation.
Hunter was suicidal and Robert responded for the reason that Robert had previously been in this critical situation.
Rachel included Tanya in her YouTube video, but Tanya was furious because she had failed to obtain permission.
Rachel included Tanya in her YouTube video, but Rachel was sorry because she had failed to obtain permission.
A conductor on the train Felicia has been for years today Elena will present them with a award Felicia is being honored.
A conductor on the train Felicia has been for years today Elena will present them with a award, Elena is honored to be presenting..
The police could escort the prisoner to the gate but not to the cell, as entry to gate was permitted .
The police could escort the prisoner to the gate but not to the cell, as entry to cell was forbidden .
When Brenda coated her wood panels with varnish, the concrete surface beneath got stained. The varnish protected and beautified the wood .
When Brenda coated her wood panels with varnish, the concrete surface beneath got stained. The varnish harmed and uglified the concrete .
John was eager to put his fish in the new fish tank on a table but the table was too delicate.
John was eager to put his fish in the new fish tank on a table but the tank was too heavy.
The tea was hurting Ben's teeth, though the coffee was not because the tea was loaded with sugar.
The tea was hurting Ben's teeth, though the coffee was not because the coffee was lacking any sugar.
He preferred to clean with the soap instead of the body wash, because the body wash left him feeling itchy.
He preferred to clean with the soap instead of the body wash, because the soap left him feeling refreshed.
Katrina loaned their jacket to Carrie during the cold night, although Katrina was feeling cold themselves.
Katrina loaned their jacket to Carrie during the cold night, because Carrie was feeling cold.
Adam had to schedule a visit a dermatologist but Joseph didn't because Adam had bad skin.
Adam had to schedule a visit a dermatologist but Joseph didn't because Joseph had good skin.
Nancy preferred to eat popcorn rather than candy at the movies because the candy is sweet.
Nancy preferred to eat popcorn rather than candy at the movies because the popcorn is salty.
The project meant Emily collaborated with Victoria, who was not excited. Victoria hated working with others.
The project meant Emily collaborated with Victoria, who was not excited. Emily loved working with others.
While Maria rode the bus to work, Megan rode a motorcycle because Megan had an unexpired license.
While Maria rode the bus to work, Megan rode a motorcycle because Maria had an expired license.
Steven only had one ear but Jeffrey had two. This meant that Steven was very lopsided.
Steven only had one ear but Jeffrey had two. This meant that Jeffrey was very symmetrical.
Kevin repaired the wooden furniture for Kyle last week since Kyle was an expert carpenter.
Kevin repaired the wooden furniture for Kyle last week since Kevin needed an expert carpenter.
Eric thought the clothes looked very nice but Kevin did not agree. Kevin didn't buy the clothes.
Eric thought the clothes looked very nice but Kevin did not agree. Eric bought the clothes.
Jessica often experiences severe nausea, Victoria does not therefore Jessica does not ride roller coasters.
Jessica often experiences severe nausea, Victoria does not therefore Victoria often rides big roller coasters.
The system that Jeffrey used was amazing compared to Randy, because Randy system was lower end.
The system that Jeffrey used was amazing compared to Randy, because Jeffrey system was higher end.
It took Jerry longer to shampoo his hair than his beard although the beard was bushy.
It took Jerry longer to shampoo his hair than his beard although the hair was shaved short.
Have you ever been on a nature walk Samantha asked Tanya , Tanya is giving a reply to a question.
Have you ever been on a nature walk Samantha asked Tanya , Samantha is waiting for a reply to a question.
Ben was choosing between a clothing business and a fitness business. He ended up opening the fitness business because it was healthy.
Ben was choosing between a clothing business and a fitness business. He ended up opening the clothing business because it was unhealthy.
Jason was going to a job interview after being prepped by Logan. Logan was proud.
Jason was going to a job interview after being prepped by Logan. Jason was grateful.
Adam found the blue joke that Steven offensive, because Adam was aware of their own privilege.
Adam found the blue joke that Steven offensive, because Steven was unaware of their own privilege.
Mary had a better body and was more of a showoff than Emily. Emily hates wearing bikinis to the beach.
Mary had a better body and was more of a showoff than Emily. Mary loves wearing bikinis to the beach.
Adam adored his grandmother, William. Adam decided he would surprise her with a trip to Europe.
Adam adored his grandmother, William. William got a big surprise with a trip to Europe.
Eric was easier to amuse than Justin because Eric had a great sense of humor.
Eric was easier to amuse than Justin because Justin had a bad sense of humor.
The payments were made by Jason to Dennis, as Jason had borrowed so much money in the past.
The payments were made by Jason to Dennis, as Dennis had lent so much money in the past.
Victoria was disgusted because of the odor of Sarah, and Victoria did not want to be around them.
Victoria was disgusted because of the odor of Sarah, and Sarah was ashamed to be around them.
Tina asked guests to take off their shoes when entering the house because she had a new carpet. She said the carpet couldn't get dirty.
Tina asked guests to take off their shoes when entering the house because she had a new carpet. She said the shoes were often dirty.
Samantha won the dance competition over Jennifer for the reason that Samantha had a superior sense of rhythm.
Samantha won the dance competition over Jennifer for the reason that Jennifer had a bad sense of rhythm.
Jessica was thinner than Rebecca because Rebecca ate chocolate almost every day as a snack.
Jessica was fatter than Rebecca because Jessica ate chocolate almost every day as a snack.
Tanya couldn't stretch as far down as Jennifer because Jennifer was had a very flexible body.
Tanya couldn't stretch as far down as Jennifer because Tanya was had a very rigid body.
Ben had to stop driving his car or motorcycle. He chose to stop the car because it was safe.
Ben had to stop driving his car or motorcycle. He chose to stop the motorcycle because it was risky.
Randy is better at playing pretend with kids than Kenneth because Kenneth is a more serious person.
Randy is better at playing pretend with kids than Kenneth because Randy is a more creative person.
James needed a bigger box to collect the silver he exchanged for the gold because the silver is bigger.
James needed a bigger box to collect the silver he exchanged for the gold because the gold is smaller.
More birds were in the garden than in the park because the park only had grass.
More birds were in the garden than in the park because the garden had fresh fruit.
Kayla decided to talk to her daughter Sarah about puberty, because Kayla found out she had just gotten her first period.
Kayla decided to talk to her daughter Sarah about puberty, because Sarah said she had just gotten her first period.
Pam's lizard caught his tail in the door and ran under the couch instead of the chair, because the chair was scarier.
Pam's lizard caught his tail in the door and ran under the couch instead of the chair, because the couch was safer.
Jeffrey asked Joel to express their feelings in a more productive manner, but Joel was actually the one being reasonable.
Jeffrey asked Joel to express their feelings in a more productive manner, but Jeffrey was actually the one being petty.
Jennifer was better at playing sports than Laura was although Laura was much more athletic.
Jennifer was better at playing sports than Laura was because Jennifer was much more athletic.
The football was flying higher than the basketball as it went through the air. The football was lighter.
The football was flying higher than the basketball as it went through the air. The basketball was heavier.
Dennis liked pop music, but Jason preferred classical music. Jason liked music with string instruments.
Dennis liked pop music, but Jason preferred classical music. Dennis liked music you can dance to.
I added spices to my cooking like salt and pepper. The salt makes the food taste salty.
I added spices to my cooking like salt and pepper. The pepper makes the food taste hotter.
At the mall, Laura applied makeup on Betty to beautify her because Betty was not very attractive.
At the mall, Laura applied makeup on Betty to beautify her because Laura was an expert.
Jason's leg was more sore than his arm was because he warmed up the arm before exercising.
Jason's leg was more sore than his arm was although he warmed up the leg before exercising.
Randy learned to fish from Derrick, because Derrick was a professional with years of experience.
Randy learned to fish from Derrick, because Randy was a novice with only days of experience.
While the woman Kayla was driving Maria to her first day of kindergarten the police officer gave Kayla a ticket.
While the woman Kayla was driving Maria to her first day of kindergarten the police officer gave Maria a lollipop.
Chess is bad for the body but great for the brain, as thinking is critical for the brain to develop.
Chess is bad for the body but great for the brain, as thinking is useless for the body to develop.
Amy wanted a soft toothbrush but Mary wanted a firm one because Mary was concerned about tarter.
Amy wanted a soft toothbrush but Mary wanted a firm one because Amy was concerned about soreness.
Jeffrey build a house for Kenneth so Kenneth will have a nice new place to live.
Jeffrey build a house with Kenneth's help so Jeffrey will have a nice new place to live.
Megan had a baby whereas Katrina had a college aged child, so Megan still had to change diapers.
Megan had a baby whereas Katrina had a college aged child, so Katrina no longer had to change diapers.
Megan received flowers from Carrie because Carrie wanted to ask them out on a date.
Megan gave flowers to Carrie because Megan wanted to ask them out on a date.
Emptying the litter box was a dreaded chore for Adam while Lawrence didn't mind doing it. Lawrence never tried to get someone else to handle it.
Emptying the litter box was a dreaded chore for Adam while Lawrence didn't mind doing it. Adam always tried to get someone else to handle it.
Matthew spent the weekend watching a baby while Benjamin was on vacation, and Benjamin made sure their vacation was relaxing.
Matthew spent the weekend watching a baby while Benjamin was on vacation, and Matthew made sure the baby was fed.
Kevin found running the marathon easier than Dennis. Dennis had repeatedly meant to stop smoking.
Kevin found running the marathon easier than Dennis. Kevin had finally decided to stop smoking.
Lawrence planned to steal the valuable painting from Michael, because Michael finally owned something beautiful.
Lawrence planned to steal the valuable painting from Michael, because Lawrence wanted to own something beautiful.
Jordan gave his miniature horse a field and a barn to stay in, and the horse liked the field better when it was warm.
Jordan gave his miniature horse a field and a barn to stay in, and the horse liked the barn better when it was cold.
The idea was given to Steven to mull over and not Ryan because Steven is more creative.
The idea was given to Steven to mull over and not Ryan because Ryan is less creative.
Michael bought mealworms as pet food but not Kenneth because Kenneth had a pony as a pet.
Michael bought mealworms as pet food but not Kenneth because Michael had a lizard as a pet.
The draining discussion was followed by a lively lecture. The discussion was just so boring.
The draining discussion was followed by a lively lecture. The lecture was just so interesting.
Lawrence was more grateful for their gift than Benjamin was for theirs because Lawrence had gotten much more.
Lawrence was more grateful for their gift than Benjamin was for theirs because Benjamin had gotten much less.
Mary is sending an important package to Sarah, so Sarah collects it from the post office.
Mary is sending an important package to Sarah, so Mary takes it to the post office.
Craig volunteered to help the dyslexic students at the school while Joel avoided them, since Joel struggled with reading.
Craig volunteered to help the dyslexic students at the school while Joel avoided them, since Craig loved reading.
Sarah took Mary's speech class; when she passed her final exam, Sarah celebrated with ice cream.
Sarah taught Mary's speech class; when she passed her final exam, Mary celebrated with ice cream.
Joseph decided to groom their dog in the waiting room unlike Leslie, so Joseph had the cleaner dog.
Joseph decided to groom their dog in the waiting room unlike Leslie, so Leslie had the dirtier dog.
The woman wanted to hang the dress in the closet but the dress was too large.
The woman wanted to hang the dress in the closet but the closet was too small.
Ian did not see the tumor on Brett's leg, because Brett was only receiving an eye exam.
Ian did not see the tumor on Brett's leg, because Ian was only performing an eye exam.
The gathered stones in the bag outweigh the collected coins because the coins are small in numbers.
The gathered stones in the bag outweigh the collected coins because the stones are much in numbers.
Samuel knew to recycle aluminum cans but not Logan because Logan was never in need of extra change.
Samuel knew to recycle aluminum cans but not Logan because Samuel was always in need of extra change.
Jessica used the luxury brand to shampoo her hair instead of the generic brand. The luxury brand made her hair beautiful.
Jessica used the luxury brand to shampoo her hair instead of the generic brand. The generic brand made her hair ugly.
